Hamilton starts off the first article by emphasizing the importance of that moment the country finds itself in. Indeed, having to choose the structure of an entire nation is a tall task. He highlights the opposition the proposed constitution is likely to encounter. Men in power in the current system would not support the constitution, as they will have to secede some power to the federal government. Some may be fearful of the impact on their freedoms and liberty. Hamilton attributes some of this upcoming opposition to "preconceived jealousies and fears" rather than sound logic. He argues that this fear can and has in the past, lead to the rise of tyranny, more likely than the "vigor" of the government.

Another major takeaway from this article is Hamilton's belief that on every question in history, the "right" side and the "wrong" side will have valid reasoning to come to their respective conclusions. However, simply being on the "right" side does not mean intentions are pure for people on that side. On the other hand, being on the "wrong" side does not imply malice in reasoning. Hamilton asks for moderation in the upcoming debate on the adoption of the constitution.

The ideas in this short article are paramount, even in today's society. The idea of freedoms and liberty being threatened by the federal government is still prevalent. Hamilton's view on the rise of tyranny being a "more certain road" from the exploitation of fears of the public can be seen being played out before our eyes. 

Donald Trump's entire strategy has been to exploit this fear of the federal government. In general, it is the Republican party's playbook, but Trump has captured this anger like no other Republican has been able to. We must keep in mind this belief Hamilton had, that we can not let "honest errors of our mind" prevent the federal government from fulfilling its duty in the constitution, to protect and serve the people of this country. We can not let those who exploit the public's fear of the government to dismantle the institutions of this country, which were built over hundreds of years to serve that very purpose, to protect the freedoms and liberty of Americans. We must protect these institutions that Donald Trump, and the Republican party by extent, are so eager to dismantle. We must protect the federal government, so that it can protect us. And we must not allow the "introduction of despotism" into this nation simply because an orange man has so effectively masked his "dangerous ambitions" behind the "zeal for the rights of the people". 

I hope you can see clearly, as I have, that Hamilton's words have never rung truer.