In the first paragraph, Jay characterizes the people of America as "intelligent and well-informed" (I guess this is why they call it the good old days) and attributes this quality as a reason for their wise decision to unite and the continued success of the nation.

In the rest of the paper, Jay discusses the most important responsibility of governments: the safety of its people. He argues violations of treaties can cause conflicts and wars, and at that point, America had treaties with 6 countries already. We need a centralized government that can negotiate with foreign entities to minimize conflict with these nations.

As a united force, the national government can pool talent from all the states. In a system with separate state administrations, we will find talent fragmented. One national military will be much wiser and experienced than many state ones. Treaties with other nations need to have consistent enforcement. States or different confederacies can have their own judges, with their own perspective or interpretation. This hints at the need for a common judicial system to reconcile differences relating to relations with foreign governments.

A state government may be influenced easily by short term loss or gain based on its unique circumstances. A national government, being an aggregator of state opinions, will not be influenced by these "temptations" to "swerve from justice and good faith." In essence, it is much less likely that one united national government break foreign treaties, than any one of several states or confederacies. So, Jay reasons, a national government is better for the safety of Americans.

Finally, the physical boundaries that exist among states and other nations may lead to rash actions from states. Indeed, Jay points out that battles with native Americans has never, at that point, been started by the national government. It is states that fail to punish aggressive individuals, or states that themselves participate in aggression, that have led to conflict. With states having borders with Spain and Britain, Jay argues, we need a federal government with the purview of international relations to mediate and moderate relations. The collective wisdom of all the state will allow cool-headed negotiations.

Jay finishes this article by stating the obvious. Being a large united nation, is in of itself an effective deterrent against foreign aggression. Large nations seldom engage in war with other large nations, at least not in numbers they do with nations they consider weaker than them.

As Jay points out, safety is perhaps the foremost ask from any government. I discussed the concept of giving up some rights in order for a government to function. Safety and security justifies, and demands, the relinquishment of some of the most basic rights we have as humans. Vehicular accidents is a significant threat to safety around the world, being a leading cause of death in most places, especially in the United States. As a result, we allow to government to regulate and restrict driving and vehicle manufacturing at a level we don't for perhaps any other form of consumption. We do so, and accept so, in exchange for our safety on the road. Every discussion around government regulation, whether it is justified, is a tug-of-war between safety and freedom. We can enact strict regulation on guns, vehicles, drugs, food, and others, which will lead to greater safety for the people, but we limit our ability to freely engage in these activities on some level. On the other hand, we can loosen regulations and gain more purview on those activities, but our safety might suffer. It is a question on where we want to land on this line, where we have safety on one end and freedom on the other. What do we value more, safety or freedom?