Hamilton argues that hostilities between republic states arise just as often as hostilities between monarchs. Hamilton claims, wars occur not just because of the desires of a single monarch, driven by ambition and drive for more power, but wars often hint at the desires among the populous, driven by hate, animosity or justice. He sites several instances throughout history where republics have engaged in conflict. Republics in ancient Italy often engaged in war with each other. Commercial nations, like America , have more to lose in a war. Nonetheless, this fact has not stopped the British empire to battle states around the world. In fact, the desire for commerce is a significant sparkle for many wars.

Hamilton lists several reason to expect hostilities between the states. The most obvious of these reasons is land disputes, which is perhaps the most common justification for war. Previously British owned land to the West, which is controlled by the union now, would need to be divided among the states. Overlapping claims would need to be resolved. Certainly, not all party will be satisfied in any single apportionment plan. Furthermore, the massive economic variance will lead to states exerting power on smaller states. New York is a perfect example, with New Jersey and Connecticut being dependent on it for commercial survival. The debts of the union also needs to be remediated. Again, no distribution plan will satisfy all the states. Hamilton paint a clear picture for the future without a union, where dissents and conflict is all but likely.

In the eighth paper, Hamilton lays out the consequences of these dissents between the states. He argues modern warfare in Europe is slow and the development in defensive forts and communication means quick and complete conquest, like in the past, is unlikely in modern times. However, in the new world, with no infrastructure for defense, we would almost certainly witness more populous states conquer smaller states with little resistance.

The relationship between the military and the civil state is also an intriguing study. Hamilton spend much time discussing this relationship. In historic republics, wars came as often as new years did. In order to be ready for incursions from hostile states, republics needed a standing army, which would be ready at all times to defend the republic. This army, by necessity, would need to compromised of much of the civilian men population. This need for a standing army would justify erosion of liberty in name of safety. Executive power would get concentrated in the military and it would surely rise above any civilian governance. In modern times, however, commercial states like Britain have armies that only constitute a small proportion of their civilian population. A civilian population, that would certainly not tolerate the incursion of their rights by the military. This balance keeps the military under the direction of the populous. The military, not loved or hated, but considered a "necessary evil", will operate primarily against foreign forces in foreign territories.

It is no secret, as I've discussed before, safety is used to justify the most egregious erosion of liberty, some justified and some not. This fact is true in every state, whether republic or not. Even in modern times, the Patriotic Act is considered a prime example of this erosion. I want to highlight the experiences of Japanese Americans during World War II while we're on this topic. Much of Americans with Japanese ancestry in California and rest of the Western United States were subjected to concentration camps for over a year during the second World War. These were American citizens who were forced to leave their homes and communities and live in camps in Nevada and Utah for months. There is not guarantee that these events were isolated mistakes, never to occur again. There is no limit on the erosion of liberty during times of war, no right too sacred and natural to be terminated.
