
This obsessive feeling calls me to chase it. It pleads the only path to satisfaction runs straight through the road not taken. However, when I walk through the door and arrive at the crossroad, I am stunned. The call to the familiar road suddenly overwhelms me. 

The road on the left is familiar. I’ve walked it countless times. I know every shop on this road, every tree, every blade of grass, every petal on the flowers. I know when the first leaves fall and gently touch the grass. I know which leaf falls. I know this road better than I know myself. I am pulled towards it, back to familiarity, back to comfort. Then there’s a path on the right, a path I have never walked before. I can see the curve further ahead. A large hill blocks the view as the path bends around it. I can see jagged rocks on the path, small gravel in front of me, slowly turning into pebbles and larger rocks at the curve. I know if I walk cautiously, if I stay observant, I can avoid the worst of them. Further down, there’s a shadow, maybe a silhouette of cliffs around the corner, perhaps ending the path further ahead. Or are my eyes hallucinating?

Closer to the curve I go, to the sharp turn up ahead. With every step, the other road pulls back heavily. The bend is sharper than I had imagined. I need to peek around to see up ahead. Is the path really blocked off? Is the shadow real? 

And just as my curiosity pulls me forward, the weight of familiarity tugs me back. I go flying back to the crossroad. From here, I wonder - will I get another opportunity to peek around that corner? Am I forever doomed in the confines of this intersection? And most importantly, is the shadow real? Is there really a cliff around the corner or can I walk this path to the end?

What could await me on this path? Maybe a new species of trees. Maybe a place where the leaves never fall from the trees, where the grass never dies. Perhaps, there are trees on each side of the path, equidistant from adjacent ones, each decorated by rings of bricks. Or maybe not. Maybe it’s all rocky. Maybe there is a cliff. Maybe I will need to turn back.

Perhaps this pull is my fear of disappointment, of knowing these trees are the only ones I’ll ever meet, of knowing the leaves will fall as they always have, of knowing this road is the only one I can ever walk. 

So, I walk the same road today. But tomorrow? Well, I don’t walk here everyday. Maybe in a week, in a month, or in half a year, whenever I find myself at this crossroad again, perhaps I can push through and finally peek around the corner. But for now, as I walk the path I’ve walked a thousand times before, I say to myself, as I always do, “Maybe next time.”