The second paper is authored by John Jay, where he starts off a series of four articles on concerns about foreign force. The first of these is again somewhat of an introduction.

Jay starts off by emphasizing the importance of this moment and the importance of discussion on the adoption of the constitution. As we move to form a union, we will be transferring power from individuals to the government. Indeed, as with formation of any government, we "cede to it some of [our] natural rights". We value our freedoms in the United States, but we still allow to government to prevent us from making harmful speech, like screaming "fire" in a packed theater. That is a "right", we have collectively decided, is worth giving up for a more prosperous union. I cannot buy goods from my fellow friends in Mexico, without the consent of the US government. That is a "right" I have surrendered to the government. I cannot walk up to my neighbor and shoot him because he shot someone I love. That is a "right" I have surrendered to the government. I cannot travel as I please internationally without informing the government. That is a "right" I have surrendered to the government. We have to give up some autonomy over our lives in order to form a government.

This concept reminds of a discussion I had with my cousin on whether one should be allowed to go into the forest and build and live in a thriving self-sufficient community, where exchange of goods and services occurs without the knowledge of the government, with no need to pay taxes. Well, I say this "right" to live freely is worth giving up for a more perfect union. I do not need to do much explaining on why allowing communities to stop paying taxes simply because they are self-sufficient is very detrimental to our society. I hope that is self-evident; my point being, we cede great amount of "rights" to the union, but such is necessary for a functional, not perfect, union.

Going back to the paper, Jay spends rest of the paragraphs highlighting the credibility of the founding fathers who wrote the constitution; that it is the same individual who brought about the confederation in the first place. With the confederation, it was accepted opinion that America is more prosperous under one union. We, as Americans were united by a common purpose for liberty and freedom, but also in language and ancestry and many more. In fact, we formed a national government promptly after declaring independence from Britain, in a time of turmoil and war. Now, in time of peace, Jay argues, we should listen to the patriots who presented the confederation, who are now presenting the constitution to us.

The founders were not always the founders. They were simply untested men, some in their 20s, before they became founders. We entrusted these folks with the crafting of a union before. Jay argues, why not trust these people again, now considered great patriots?

Jay highlights some parallels to discussions around the constitution to discussions around the confederation when it was proposed. The confederation, similar to the constitution, faced opposition from individuals in positions of power in the states, and from regular folks who were "deceived and deluded" into opposing it. 

In relation to today's world, I want to highlight a couple of topics. First, there seems to be an idea that any government power or restriction is detrimental to our lives, that we will be better off with fewer and fewer power with the government, that we must take back our "rights" from the government. Again, this ideas seems to be entrenched within one of the parties. To address this, I go back to the same assertion Jay presents in this paper. Individuals in favor of this idea either have the most to gain, financially and politically, from this catastrophic adjustment or have been tricked into this position by those very individuals. We have a government that is already prohibited from encroaching our rights as laid out in the first ten amendments. We, as Americans, already live a life freer than most around the world. Any diminishment of power from the federal government only stands to hurt our union. 

Second, there is a great lack of trust in our government and our institutions. This is a topic I can probably write a book on, but I'll be brief here. We have delegated decision making among hundreds and thousands of individuals in the government. We do so, not just because as individuals, we cannot take charge of every decision, and every conflict, but because we can not be experts in every field. In face, I will say I am unintelligent on an overwhelming majority of subjects out there, and that is okay. Anything else would be out of the norm. We need experts who spend their lives studying and understanding one topic to make decisions for us on matters relating to that topic. Now, I'm not asking for blind trust. However, I do not believe we have a problem with too much trust in this country. We have a problem of the opposite. Just as Jay believed in trust in individuals who have shown to serve the truth and the best of the nation, we must have some trust in folks who have dedicated their lives to understand one subject matter.